README.md, before:

# Obsidian GitHub Copilot Plugin

![Obsidian plugin](https://img.shields.io/endpoint?url=https://scambier.xyz/obsidian-endpoints/github-copilot.json)
![GitHub release (latest by date including pre-releases)](https://img.shields.io/github/v/release/pierrad/obsidian-github-copilot)

Use **GitHub Copilot** in the Obsidian editor. This plugin is a bridge between the Obsidian editor and the GitHub Copilot service.

- 🤖 Get inline suggestion as you type using GitHub Copilot service
- 💬 Use the GitHub Copilot Chat service to ask questions about your notes

## 🗒️ Requirements

- A GitHub Copilot subscription (https://copilot.github.com/)
- Network connection to send and receive data from the GitHub Copilot service

## ⚙️ Installation

1. Install the plugin via the Obsidian community plugins browser.
2. Activate the plugin in the settings. Make sure to configure any necessary options.

## 🤖 GitHub Copilot Inline

![https://github.com/Pierrad/obsidian-github-copilot/tree/master/.github/assets/example.gif](https://github.com/Pierrad/obsidian-github-copilot/blob/master/.github/assets/example.gif)

### Requirements

- Node.js 20 or later

### Installation

1. Once installed, go to the plugin settings and enter the path to the Node +20 binary. You can find it by running `which node` in your terminal.
2. Either
   1. A modal will appear asking you to sign in to Copilot. Follow the instructions to sign in.
   2. Or, you will receive a notice saying that Copilot is ready to use. (This will happen if you have already signed in to Copilot in the past in IDEs)

> [!NOTE]  
> If you install the plugin by cloning it or downloading the release files from GitHub, you will need to name the plugin folder `github-copilot` for the plugin to work.


### Usage

1. Open a note in Obsidian. 
2. Write something in the editor.
3. After a small pause, Copilot will suggest completions for your text.
4. Press `Tab` to accept a suggestion or `Esc` to dismiss it.

### Features

- [x] Use GitHub Copilot in the Obsidian editor
- [x] Configure the suggestion generation delay
- [x] Configure your bindings to accept, dismiss, trigger or partially accept suggestions
- [x] Configure if you want to see automatic suggestions or only trigger them manually
- [x] Configure if you want to see suggestion only in code blocks or in the whole note 
- [x] Exclude folders and files from the suggestion generation 

### Known issues

- If you installed Obsidian with Flatpak, you might need to use NVM to handle Node.js versions as the default binary path is not accessible in the Flatpak sandbox. See [this issue](https://github.com/Pierrad/obsidian-github-copilot/issues/6) for more information.
- "Tab" completion can be buggy in some cases (e.g. in bullet points in LateX Math mode for example). It depends on plugin priority over the keybindings. See [this issue](https://github.com/Pierrad/obsidian-github-copilot/issues/38) for more information. 


## 💬 GitHub Copilot Chat

https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/89089920-45de-47c3-80b1-f2d58d1ba55e

### Installation

- Once installed, you can find the GitHub Copilot Chat in the right sidebar of Obsidian.
- It should ask you to sign in to GitHub Copilot. Follow the instructions to sign in.

### Usage

- Open the GitHub Copilot Chat in the right sidebar.
- Choose a model to use (e.g. `gpt-4` or `claude 3.7`).
- Ask a question and like a note like you would do in the obsidian editor (e.g. `Can you summarize this note [[my note]]?`).

### Features

- [x] Use GitHub Copilot Chat in the Obsidian editor
- [x] Choose the model to use between all models available in the GitHub Copilot Chat service
- [x] Implement a chat history
- [x] Link notes with [[double bracket syntax]] in the chat
- [x] Configure a custom prompt as a system message in the settings
- [x] Let the user choose the default behavior of the enter key (send message or add a new line)
- [ ] Stream the response from the API
  - Waiting for requestUrl to implement Streaming : https://forum.obsidian.md/t/support-streaming-the-request-and-requesturl-response-body/87381

## CLI: Workspace flags and safety

The repository includes a minimal CLI at `cli/bin/copilot-cli.js` which can be used to interact with GitHub Copilot from your terminal. The CLI supports a `--workspace` option which allows the CLI (and the autonomous `agent` mode) to include a snapshot of a directory as system context and to safely restrict read/write operations to that directory.

Important behavior and defaults:

- `--workspace <dir>`: when provided, the CLI will recursively read files under `<dir>` and include them in the chat system context so the model can reason about your workspace.
- `--workspace-depth N` (default: unlimited): maximum recursion depth when collecting the workspace snapshot.
- `--workspace-max-file M` (default: unlimited): maximum file size (in MB) to include the file contents. Larger files are represented as `<file too large: XMB>` in the snapshot.
- Writes performed by `agent` mode will be constrained to the workspace path if `--workspace` is used; attempts to write outside the workspace will be rejected and logged.
- Reads performed by `agent` mode will be rejected if outside the workspace when `--workspace` is set.
- Safety flags: use `--dry-run` to preview planned steps without executing them, or `--simulate` to allow reads but skip destructive operations.

Example usage (sandboxed):

```bash
node cli/bin/copilot-cli.js agent "List files and append a summary to summary.txt" --workspace ./cli/test-workspace --workspace-depth 2 --workspace-max-file-kb 50 --dry-run --log ./cli/agent-log.json
```

Note: Always test agent runs in a sandboxed workspace before running on sensitive data. The workspace flags are intended to reduce accidental access, but are not a substitute for careful review of agent plans.

Commit message:

✨ Add shell completion support for copilot-cli in bash, zsh, fish, and PowerShell

README.md, after:

# Obsidian GitHub Copilot Plugin

![Obsidian plugin](https://img.shields.io/endpoint?url=https://scambier.xyz/obsidian-endpoints/github-copilot.json)
![GitHub release (latest by date including pre-releases)](https://img.shields.io/github/v/release/pierrad/obsidian-github-copilot)

Use **GitHub Copilot** in the Obsidian editor. This plugin is a bridge between the Obsidian editor and the GitHub Copilot service.

- 🤖 Get inline suggestion as you type using GitHub Copilot service
- 💬 Use the GitHub Copilot Chat service to ask questions about your notes

## 🗒️ Requirements

- A GitHub Copilot subscription (https://copilot.github.com/)
- Network connection to send and receive data from the GitHub Copilot service

## ⚙️ Installation

1. Install the plugin via the Obsidian community plugins browser.
2. Activate the plugin in the settings. Make sure to configure any necessary options.

## 🤖 GitHub Copilot Inline

![https://github.com/Pierrad/obsidian-github-copilot/tree/master/.github/assets/example.gif](https://github.com/Pierrad/obsidian-github-copilot/blob/master/.github/assets/example.gif)

### Requirements

- Node.js 20 or later

### Installation

1. Once installed, go to the plugin settings and enter the path to the Node +20 binary. You can find it by running `which node` in your terminal.
2. Either
   1. A modal will appear asking you to sign in to Copilot. Follow the instructions to sign in.
   2. Or, you will receive a notice saying that Copilot is ready to use. (This will happen if you have already signed in to Copilot in the past in IDEs)

> [!NOTE]  
> If you install the plugin by cloning it or downloading the release files from GitHub, you will need to name the plugin folder `github-copilot` for the plugin to work.


### Usage

1. Open a note in Obsidian. 
2. Write something in the editor.
3. After a small pause, Copilot will suggest completions for your text.
4. Press `Tab` to accept a suggestion or `Esc` to dismiss it.

### Features

- [x] Use GitHub Copilot in the Obsidian editor
- [x] Configure the suggestion generation delay
- [x] Configure your bindings to accept, dismiss, trigger or partially accept suggestions
- [x] Configure if you want to see automatic suggestions or only trigger them manually
- [x] Configure if you want to see suggestion only in code blocks or in the whole note 
- [x] Exclude folders and files from the suggestion generation 

### Known issues

- If you installed Obsidian with Flatpak, you might need to use NVM to handle Node.js versions as the default binary path is not accessible in the Flatpak sandbox. See [this issue](https://github.com/Pierrad/obsidian-github-copilot/issues/6) for more information.
- "Tab" completion can be buggy in some cases (e.g. in bullet points in LateX Math mode for example). It depends on plugin priority over the keybindings. See [this issue](https://github.com/Pierrad/obsidian-github-copilot/issues/38) for more information. 


## 💬 GitHub Copilot Chat

https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/89089920-45de-47c3-80b1-f2d58d1ba55e

### Installation

- Once installed, you can find the GitHub Copilot Chat in the right sidebar of Obsidian.
- It should ask you to sign in to GitHub Copilot. Follow the instructions to sign in.

### Usage

- Open the GitHub Copilot Chat in the right sidebar.
- Choose a model to use (e.g. `gpt-4` or `claude 3.7`).
- Ask a question and like a note like you would do in the obsidian editor (e.g. `Can you summarize this note [[my note]]?`).

### Features

- [x] Use GitHub Copilot Chat in the Obsidian editor
- [x] Choose the model to use between all models available in the GitHub Copilot Chat service
- [x] Implement a chat history
- [x] Link notes with [[double bracket syntax]] in the chat
- [x] Configure a custom prompt as a system message in the settings
- [x] Let the user choose the default behavior of the enter key (send message or add a new line)
- [ ] Stream the response from the API
  - Waiting for requestUrl to implement Streaming : https://forum.obsidian.md/t/support-streaming-the-request-and-requesturl-response-body/87381

## CLI: Workspace flags and safety

The repository includes a minimal CLI at `cli/bin/copilot-cli.js` which can be used to interact with GitHub Copilot from your terminal. The CLI supports a `--workspace` option which allows the CLI (and the autonomous `agent` mode) to include a snapshot of a directory as system context and to safely restrict read/write operations to that directory.

Important behavior and defaults:

- `--workspace <dir>`: when provided, the CLI will recursively read files under `<dir>` and include them in the chat system context so the model can reason about your workspace.
- `--workspace-depth N` (default: unlimited): maximum recursion depth when collecting the workspace snapshot.
- `--workspace-max-file M` (default: unlimited): maximum file size (in MB) to include the file contents. Larger files are represented as `<file too large: XMB>` in the snapshot.
- Writes performed by `agent` mode will be constrained to the workspace path if `--workspace` is used; attempts to write outside the workspace will be rejected and logged.
- Reads performed by `agent` mode will be rejected if outside the workspace when `--workspace` is set.
- Safety flags: use `--dry-run` to preview planned steps without executing them, or `--simulate` to allow reads but skip destructive operations.

Example usage (sandboxed):

```bash
node cli/bin/copilot-cli.js agent "List files and append a summary to summary.txt" --workspace ./cli/test-workspace --workspace-depth 2 --workspace-max-file 50 --dry-run --log ./cli/agent-log.json
```

Shell completions for bash/zsh/fish/powershell are available via `cli/completions` and can be installed as described in `cli/README.md`.

Note: Always test agent runs in a sandboxed workspace before running on sensitive data. The workspace flags are intended to reduce accidental access, but are not a substitute for careful review of agent plans.
